yeah good morning um i'm really happy to
be here in barcelona today at saster
thank you so much jason for putting this
together it's awesome that we can
finally meet in person again
i'm christoph janz one of the partners
at 0.9 capital
in case you haven't heard about 0.9 yet
we're an early stage venture capital
fund focused on
sas
if you haven't heard about us i'm sure
you've heard about some of the amazing
sas companies that we've been fortunate
to invest in over the years
like factorial or type form both based
in barcelona or algolia contentful and
and loom and and several others
so
i was planning to talk about this topic
which you can see here mind the gap
balancing growth and efficiency in
tougher times
because i think it's a topic that is
really top of mind for many of us here
maybe most of us
but i do know that a lot of people have
already talked about it and you've
already seen a lot of
tweets
and blog posts so
in case you're all all tired of this
topic already then please let me know
and we can talk about something else so
raise your hand if you'd rather talk
about something else
i don't see any
hand so i take this as a unanimous
decision to proceed with this topic and
i guess it makes sense because whether
you're not whether you like it or not
and i don't really know if there will be
an extended funding winter
but it's pretty clear that something has
changed in the funding environment in
the last couple of days weeks and months
growth is no longer rewarded at any cost
and based on that alone it probably
makes sense for everybody to revisit
some of their assumptions
i
wrote a blog post a couple of weeks ago
titled hyper growth is great but don't
die while trying
and
i'd like to start by walking you through
the key concepts of that post and after
that i'll share some more thoughts on
what you can do to navigate a sas
company in this new environment
and and then we'll have some time for um
for q a
so
i have a question for you
who of you has been in a situation where
you were growing fast
you were crushing it you got calls from
tiger your vcs probably told you that
you need to burn more money
and then
almost suddenly
just
like weeks or months later things look
drastically different
your growth rate tanked your burn rate
increased your runway started to look
dangerously low and you were getting
nervous about your your future in the
next round of financing so put your
hands up if that sounds familiar to you
it's really really awesome to have a
couple of honest people in the audience
everybody who hasn't
raised their hand
either is a liar sorry or you haven't
been around long enough i think it's
things like this happen to almost
everybody at some point
but let's try to understand a bit better
why this happens and maybe what you can
do
to deal with it or even better to
prevent it in the first place
why is it that companies sometimes go
from boom to bust
in a matter of months
there can be many reasons for this but i
think the two like most
important or two most frequent reasons
are
a couple of things
um
if you suddenly find your situat
yourself in a situation that's much
worse and it's probably because two
things happened um growth slows down
and at the same time you keep spending
cash according to your original plan and
expectations and
what you what then typically happens is
basically what you can see here
um
let's try to
look into this formula which is really a
formula for disaster and in some more
detail
and
if you if your growth slows down
um
and you keep spending according to your
original plan
it's quite obviously that you have a
higher burn
shorter runway
less arr less investor interest
and in a red hot vc market like the one
that we had in 2020 2021 in particular
you might still be okay or you might
still get away with this but in a
tougher financing market like the one
that we've entered a couple of months
ago this is a huge problem
in the best case if you have to raise in
a situation like this you might have to
raise at a much lower valuation than you
than you were hoping for might even be a
down round um in the worst case you can
literally go bust
um
let's
try to dig in a bit deeper here like
like how does it work and
what what what are the mechanics and how
how can you diagnose the problem and
what you can do about it
we're going to look at an imaginary sas
company
obviously called acme
and i'll show you the projections of
this company
the company is at four million dollar
err and they've recently raised 12
million dollars in venture capital
financing the plan of the company is to
triple arr to 12 months to 12 million er
in the next 12 months and then we to
continue to grow very fast and reach 19
million of er six months later
um you can see the er projection here
and on the next chart you can see the
cash flow projections green is um cash
coming in red is cash going out and the
red line um is the the net the net burn
and here on the top right you see the
the bank balance as a result of this
it looks pretty good at least based on
this plan the company has
about 18 months of runway which is which
maybe sounds reasonably good
but now let's
fast forward six months and and see what
happened
so six months later the company has been
doing pretty good like didn't quite hit
their plan but pretty close
so they've grown from four million to
6.2 million in er which is as you can
see it's it's not quite no it's not a
plan achievement but it but it's pretty
close
um if you look at the
cash flow
charts here you can see the actuals
really
not a not a hugely visible difference
that you can see here at least on this
scale
and here what happened to the bank
balance but now
the founders or the management
of this company they decided to take a
much closer look and
they they saw that their growth rate in
the in those first two six months has
only been about seven point six percent
instead of the nine percent which they
which they were originally planning with
which is not a huge which might not
sound like a huge difference but because
it's exponential growth and it compounds
um the the founders realize that things
aren't quite
going according to to plan so what they
did is that they
changed their their forecast to make it
more realistic so here's the the
reforecast
um
you can see in the on this light
yeah light green line um the what that
looks like based on a more conservative
more realistic forecast
um
and now if you look at what the cash
flow projection looks like based on that
revenue forecast
but keeping
costs as they were
and this is where things start to get
pretty ugly
because
as you can see here if you look at what
it does to your to the to the balance to
the bank balance of this company
is that um they will run out of money
after month 14 in comparison to month 18
which they planned originally but
because they're already at months
month six they only have seven months of
runway left which means they have to do
something immediately um
we can talk about some of the things
which they can do to increase runway
um
a bit later on but the key message here
is um it's
about time and no definitely not a day
too early for the company to see that
something hasn't been going to plan
according to plan and they have to do
something
if they had waited another two or three
months to do something the company would
probably be dead
here you can see the again like what it
meant to the bank balance
so
what happened
the company started out with 18 months
of runway
but six months later they only had seven
months left um what happened how could
it have been avoided
the simple answer is
that the burn of the company was too
high that they didn't plan to have
enough runway in the first place and
they should have had much more buffer
that's all true
but let's still dig a little bit deeper
in here
one of the issues is that if you
look at the total err
the delta is not very visible like if
you look at the chart here on the left
the dark green is the is the actual the
light green is the original plan
it it doesn't look dramatic right it
looks like the company is more or less
on track
if you look at the net new arr however
the difference becomes much more visible
um it's a really really simple
mass but nevertheless i think
some people or maybe many people or two
people too many people um don't really
focus on looking at the net new arr only
in spite of this really being the metric
that gives you a a better insight and
which is which is where you basically
see any issues earlier
and if you look at it in a different way
here maybe it becomes even more visible
so what you can see here is the arr at
the top and net new are at the bottom
and it compares the plan numbers versus
the actual and then in this green yellow
orange red cells you see the percentage
of plan achievement and if you look only
at er it's always above 90 percent so
you might think it's it's all it's all
reasonably close to the original plan uh
everything is okay let's just continue
but if you look at net neur you can see
that the difference is that the amount
that you've missed relative to your plan
is actually much more serious
and really as a startup the ability to
adapt super quickly is is absolutely
critical right um
it's
being fast in general is probably the
only advantage that you have as a
startup
going after bigger companies but
it's also really really critical to
react quickly to a new situation whether
it's a new situation by
based on lower growth or something
having changed in your business or a
change in the market environment or
maybe even a combination of both
and if you're not focused on the right
kpis
you will probably not be able to react
quickly enough and as i showed in this
example this this can be
a matter of life or death
now
what should you do
if basically has fan
has hit the fan already or if you
are already dangerously close to that
iceberg
well i i think there is no
one-size-fits-all answer
there is a lot of advice these days
along the lines of
you every company
needs
uh five years of of runway or every
company needs to be profitable um i i
think that's
um
[Music]
it's not it's it's well intended but it
doesn't really always
doesn't really always work
it's just not possible for every company
to to have so much to create so much
runway it might lead you to
under invest in in growth and then maybe
you won't die quick you won't die
quickly but you'll basically die slowly
and miss your your chance to build a
really big company so
not every company
is able to become default alive
the second best option that you have is
to become
what david sacks recently called default
investable which i think is a is a good
concept
what he meant by this is think about how
much runway you have um and how you you
think you're going to look like
by the end of that runway or maybe two
or three months before that and try to
find out if at this point in time you
have a really high chance to be a
company that has a reasonably easy time
raising money from investors
so we can talk about
that question a little bit like what
makes a company
investable
we've tried to address this question
uh
like for for many years with our
sas funding netkin which maybe some of
you know um
there is no there is never just one
factor or one metric that makes a
company investable or not investable
it's always a combination of of many
different things like um
non-quantitative things like your team
and product and market and competition
and all these things
but there are also many important
metrics and the later stage the company
is the more it is about
quantitative metrics like growth and
matured revenue turn net expansion
efficiency and many many many other
metrics
um
growth is still incredibly important and
i'm i i'm going to show you some of the
benchmarks here from bessemer's very
large cloud portfolio um
as you can see here
the bar is is still pretty high um if
you're not growing
at least 2x year over year it's pretty
hard to get investors really excited
at least until
let's say 20 25 million in in er if if
you're significantly beyond that then
obviously the gross expectations in
terms of their relative growth
are a little bit lower
but if you
look at the
these
numbers here which are really from the
entire uh cloud portfolio of besamar
it's not only the the unicorns or the
public companies it's their entire
portfolio um you can see that
the bar is is is pretty high
so
growth continues to be
very very important
but what's maybe new in this new
environment is that it's no longer
growth at any cost
efficiency is is important has become
more important because growth at at any
cost is is no longer rewarded and so you
have to try to find the right balance
between growth and
efficiency
and in order to
measure or get a sense for your
efficiency
i i like two metrics in particular that
i'd like to show here
one is the the burn multiple
which
basically tells you
how much capital do i have to raise
for one dollar of net new arr so i think
it's a really
simple to understand and quite practical
metric to keep in mind
um
it's
it's it's not possible to tell you like
what is
good
or what is not good without knowing a
bit more about your company it depends
on the stage right um if you're just
starting out it's normal
that your that value or that metric is
higher because in the first couple of
years you have to invest so much in
product and engineering to get things
off the ground and to even have a
sellable product so it's normal that
this value is higher in the beginning
and then over time
you
you can you can lower it because you
have some benefits of scale
as a general rule of rule of thumb for
sas companies
around a million to 25 million in arr
which i'm assuming is probably the
uh like the range most people in the
audience here um are are in um one to
five
1.5 to two is is good um 1 to 1.5 or
even lower is is great
if
if you're spending or burning like three
or four dollars
to add one dollar in net new arr it's
probably hard to convince investors and
because they will think about like i'm
going to invest
20 million dollars here
they are going to add only let's say
5 million in that new ar
and then i think about what does it mean
for the next round and it just doesn't
look that that convincing then so the
the burn multiple is a is a pretty
important thing to keep in mind
um
the the other really important
like efficiency measure is the sales
efficiency and what the sales efficiency
does is it tells you how much net new
arr do i add for one dollar spent on
sales and marketing
there are a couple of
related similar metrics like the magic
number which you may have read about
or like the the net
net sales efficiency which looks only at
net new
or gross uh efficiency sorry which looks
at uh not net new er edit but all of uh
the
which looks
i'll i'll follow up with this i want to
make sure i don't say something that's
uh that's wrong so i'll when i share the
slides i'll add the definitions of some
of the
other other alternatives but the the
bottom line is that
there are some nuances in the way you
look for only like net new arr or new
arr or if you factor in a gross profit
if you want to know your payback
time but in the end it it's always about
measuring the efficiency of your sales
and marketing machine
and a value of 0.5 to 1
is is very good um 1 to 1.5
is is even better is is great um so
note that in the burn multiple the net
new r was in the denominator while in
the sales efficiency formula it's in the
numerator so for this one you want it to
be as high as possible for the
burn multiple door multiple you wanted
it to be
as low as as low as possible
um it's not so important i think if you
look at the
sales efficiency or the magic number or
the payback time
which which of these metrics is the
right one depends a bit on your stage
and in your sales cycle and a couple of
other factors
but you have to have one metric that
measures the efficiency efficiency uh
with with which you use
which you can acquire customers and
basically how long it takes for you to
recover your investments in sales and
marketing
now
if we put these two metrics on a
two times 2x2 matrix we i think can make
some pretty interesting observations
if you're in the
top right corner here
congrats then
it's you're probably on a really really
good track everything is pretty awesome
if you're
in the bottom right
then
it means that your sales efficiency is
is very good like very very good but
your overall burn multiple is is too
high
so in that situation you probably should
not cut costs across the board in order
to increase your runway you actually
have an opportunity
to increase your sales and marketing
spend until
you reach the point where it stops to be
efficient so
if if you're in this quadrant you should
consider
trying to cut costs in everything that's
not sales and marketing r d gna and all
like all these other buckets and try to
shift more budget to sales and marketing
and this might be a little bit
unintuitive because you you might think
that you just have to cut costs in order
to maximize the chance of i don't know
surviving or increasing your runway but
this is no this is this isn't always the
case if you have an efficient sales and
marketing engine try to spend more on it
not less and try to save money in other
in other places
um on the opposite part of that if your
sales and marketing efficiency is is
pretty low
and your burn multiple is uh is also
quite low and it means that overall
you're probably doing okay
but you're wasting money on sales and
marketing so
in this case um you should almost
certainly reduce your sales and
marketing spend
um because it's it's just waste and you
you should most likely
you probably have to let go some sales
people
reduce your your marketing spend like
rebuild things learn
and once you have a you understand
better in terms of your sales and
marketing efficiency um then you can
then you can increase it again
um
you might wonder like if you think
you're it's not looking great right now
but you expect it to look
good like you you'll probably wonder
like should i let go my sales people i
think they will do well in next week or
next month um i can't give you the
answer to to that it always depends
depends on your confidence that things
are really starting to look better
depends on how much runway you have
but
there is no
one size fits all solution to most of
these questions
last and i don't know hopefully least if
you are in the
in this quadrant here in the bottom left
it means you're burning too much overall
and you're spending too much on sales
and marketing so this is obviously a
very tough spot
and
in in this
if you're in this situation you most
likely have to cut costs across the
board spend less on sales and marketing
and decrease your overall overall burn
just to ensure the survival of the
company you most likely have to accept
that you're not going to grow very fast
in the next six to 12 months but you
probably have no other choice so in the
if you're in this
situation you most likely have to make
pretty deep cuts um and buy yourself
time to improve your product market fit
and basically to figure things out
all right
let me
try to summarize some of the some of the
takeaways from this
you can and you should have an ambitious
plan
but when it comes to determining your
runway
it has to be based on a more modest plan
um like this gap that increases month
over month if you don't hit your nine
percent or ten percent or eleven percent
month over month goal will just get
bigger and bigger every every month so
if you and it's it's usually at least at
a
serious a or probably even serious b
stage startup you usually don't have
that level of predictability so if
you're basically planning to spend money
that you will only have if you hit those
growth targets it's just very very risky
so i think you need to have a more
conservative plan which you use to to
manage your runway
um
as i
talked about it at the beginning of the
talk
you need to have a look at net neur
because if you look at arr only you
might not notice that things are um off
track fast enough um you need to be
really fast to adapt and you should
consider having a burn budget that's
something that jason wrote about in a in
a blog post that really resonated with
me and so you're basically defining a
maximum amount that you and your team
know they can burn and you just don't
increase that so um it
if you're
if you have less revenue than plan it
just means you have to you just can't
spend more so i think you need some
guard rails to
ensure that you're not running into the
situation that i described at the
beginning of this
presentation if you can't become default
alive then
try to become default investable
and
to become default invest investable
look at your burn multiple look at your
sales efficiency um you may want to move
budget from gna and r d to s m
or the other way around depending on
where on this 2x two times two matrix
you are
or you might also have to reduce
costs
across the board
i have a few
bonus points
that we can go through
quickly and after that i'm very happy to
take some some questions so
um
i'm sure you've all
read a couple of
posts or many maybe many posts by
various people vcs or
ceos operators about ways to
increase runway i think not everything
here is something for everyone
consider it a menu of options that you
can
consider and
kind of try to find the the right ones
based on on your specific company i'm
sure there are um a couple of other ones
or maybe maybe many many other ones that
i didn't mention here but those are some
of my favorites i just mentioned them
really briefly
um
you can try to switch more of your
customers to upfront payments like if
you have a lot of customers paying you
monthly
i think you should try
to get more of them to pay you a year in
advance
you probably have to offer them
something like a discount you shouldn't
do too much but
there obviously there is a trade off you
sacrifice some revenue in order to get
some more cash um but if you need that
cash now is probably the time for you to
do that so that's something that you
consider and then you can
need obviously to make sure that your
sales team knows about it and is
incentivized to to collect more cash in
advance
another possibility
if you have a significant number of
customers on old pricing plans and you
have increased your pricing in the
meantime is that you de-grandfather them
and this might be
feel odd to you like talk to customers
and tell them well you're going to have
to pay us more um
but companies have done it and you have
to manage it carefully um and
if you
need some more cash this might be a one
of the one of the less disruptive ways
of actually doing it next point in
general try to increase your pricing
pricing is a is a huge leverage
lots of sales companies don't charge
enough so
increasing pricing or experimenting with
pricing is generally always a very good
idea but
but if you haven't done it before or if
you're
not sure
now is a good time it's another reason
for you to consider it
the next one
it might sound
quite harsh but every company
has
five to ten percent or maybe even more
of people on their team who are just not
performing as well as the rest there is
just no company where everybody is at
the same level so um just consider
letting go
like the
the bottom five to ten percent in the in
the sales team it might even be
the bottom twenty percent um and you
will probably not lose much in terms of
output and productivity by doing that
the next one
um again it's a topic which uh jason
is the the expert on and can tell you
more about
move on from navp that isn't amazing
i think this advice has been given and
repeated many times over but it doesn't
make it wrong if you've hired a vp say
it's marketing or any other function and
if
he or she isn't absolutely awesome
after a couple of months then you know
that you have to let that person go just
i wouldn't even
try to understand the excuses why he or
she isn't performing um i would just
judge them based on the results because
that's what you well that's basically
what you're paying a leader to deliver
next point um very tactical but most sas
companies or many could get much better
at collections it might be that if you
hire somebody
probably just part-time to to chase
revenue from customers where they didn't
pay you or credit cards
failed or things like that they might
that person might might pay um for for
herself or himself
next point renegotiate with your vendors
um as a sas company you might have seen
this from the other side already um in a
downturn everybody is trying to
renegotiate uh like with their landlord
or their their sas vendors so you should
try to do that too
again it's maybe an awkward conversation
to have something that maybe you won't
enjoy but i i think you can you can do
that and it's another way of saving some
money
number eight if you look at your
marketing spend you will almost
certainly find that the last 20 or last
10 percent or last x percent of your
spend is much much less efficient than
the average
that's just
really basically quite natural and
logical you catch the lowest hanging
fruits first and then the marginal spend
like the marginal customer is just much
much more expensive to acquire so just
by cutting like the last ten or twenty
percent you can probably save save some
money
and the last point that i'm going to
mention here is that you can consider
venture debt or revenue based financing
but it should probably be the last
resort because it'll add a lot of risk
to it to your company so if if you do
that and things don't work out then
basically the bank owns your company by
the time you you have to pay back so um
not the not the best way of extending
your your runway in a situation where
the the company isn't very healthy
that's all i have in terms of slides
thank you so much for your
attention very happy to
take any questions and as i mentioned on
twitter because there is usually nobody
who wants to be the first
whoever is first will get a 0.9 swag
package
[Applause]
and i think we have somebody from the
sastra team i think
caitlyn or somebody else with a
microphone so
um
thank you for the great presentation my
name is manuel mates from here from
barcelona
yesterday we had a dinner with some sas
founders here in barcelona
and
some of them say listen it seems that
it's coming in a disaster you know so
i'm sorry i have
some trouble under hearing you i don't
mean
speaking to the mic for everybody else
and i try to understand you too
yesterday we were talking with some such
founders
about what is macro i want what is
incentive in
33 so
there are some businesses at least
states that seems that they don't know
which can be the upside and so on and
they are starting to stop
valuations and investments now they say
hey i don't have a view a clear view
which will be my upside in the next
round so for the moment i stop
this effect from
top bottom
will go do you think that you will go
from series b cities a and c
what's your thought about this and
what's your thoughts about
hey i'm investable as you say
and i can continue the market and go
into it for morning yeah great thank you
um so the the question was
i hope everybody heard it like basically
what is
how does the how do investors react to
in this current environment um and
basically is it trickling through
from the public markets to the later
stage growth financing and ultimately to
series a's and and seats
i think it's
it is
really cascading through right the so
the impact on
from the
public markets are have been very it's
been very fast to trickle down to
pre-ipo financing and later stage like
growth equity financing because these
types of investors especially the ones
that can invest both in private and in
public markets they they will look at
this delta and for them they will just
think why would i invest in a private
company at 30 times er if i can invest
in a public company at five times or
only 10 times er
so this will be arbitraged away
really really quickly
and on top of that some of these
crossover investors
who invested a lot in
both private and public sales companies
now they see like the public portion of
their portfolio like devalued by i know
2x or even more so it means they have
basically over allocated on the private
side now so there's a lot of
drama happening in the pre-ipo and in
growth rounds um
i think it will trickle down to some
extent to earlier stages um
but i think it's a bit too early to tell
like how much right i think everybody is
most investors that i talked to um tell
me yeah they are still excited about
sars and obviously we are
but i think it will have an impact if
some of the players that were so active
in the last few years just go away so
it'll increase some it will decrease
some of the competitive pressure um my
my guess is that we will not go back
maybe never or maybe not for 10 years to
what we've seen in 2020 and 2021 where
there was a lot of craziness like every
round being done in just a couple of
days at insane valuations um so i think
now is more normal than the last two
years um and i think if things kind of
stabilize the way they were between
let's say 2016 and 2019 i think that
would probably be okay for everybody
hello
i'm jolly from sociable
um
i think so the presentation is really
great uh i would say that there are many
companies that are not in in this type
of crowd but they're just profitable and
bootstrapping
and and i think that this new period
is a good moment for the bootstrappers
honestly because
most of us face companies who burn a lot
and and
we face these companies now probably the
burning rate will be lower and the
competition will be probably more fair
uh for the bootstrappers so i i can
understand that for some some of us
it's a bad moment but for others i think
it's a good moment
yeah absolutely agree i think there are
two types of companies that are in a
good
spot now one is bootstrap companies
right because they never made themselves
dependent on from financial markets or
investors anyway um and then on the
other hand companies that raised a lot
of money
six to 12 months ago but have but
importantly have not increased their
burn rate um like accordingly so
those companies that have raised maybe
five times as much as they wanted or
should have raised and
if they haven't
increased their burn rate as much and
they can kind of stretch this over to
have a burn rate of many
a runway of many years that's great i
think the companies that are in trouble
are the ones that have
raised a lot and then immediately
started to create a huge burn rate um or
companies
that maybe
were had a have a higher burn rate and
were about to raise but haven't raised
last year
but bootstrapped companies definitely
can be super strong in this in this
situation and
you can still consider
raising if you want to accelerate
because you're in a great position to be
you're in a great position make very
attractive for investors and the value
of cash is actually bigger now right so
if you can raise
capital now you can probably buy other
companies and do all kinds of things
uh thank you very much for the
presentation
so
how hard do you think it's going to be
for companies that are used to have a
big burner
cash burn
i'm just
taking back this question here and uh i
want to know how how hard do you think
it's going to be for companies that are
used to burn a lot of cash
in order to grow
to pivot into a more profitable model
i
it
it obviously depends right events on
like what they why it depends on why are
they
why do they need so much capital like
how do they
spend it do they spend it on let's say
moonshot product developments which
might be good investments that just
don't pay off quickly
or do they spend
money on inefficient ways to sales to
buy customers using sales and marketing
and in that case
they should probably cut costs um very
quickly
i
i think
it's not going to be easy but it's
possible for these companies right and
the sooner you react the better it is
because every month you wait reduces
your
your runway and it means that once you
do pull the plug on some of these things
it'll just become harder and harder um
but i mean
there have been i know probably
thousands or tens of thousands of cases
of startups going through a phase like
this
and
maybe laying off 20 or 30 of the people
and downsizing and that came out as
healthier companies after that so i i
think this is definitely possible this
is not a
death sentence but it requires
really fast decisive action and doing
things that are probably amongst the
least pleasant things that you can do as
a as a ceo
my name is julia and i'm a ux designer
in brighton
and i'm wondering you were you were
mentioning
in order to increase the runway and you
can switch uh the payment model from
let's feedback
going from uh monthly to annually
payment right i'm just wondering what's
your experience in doing that isn't it
something that can backfire that people
would
sign up for
it depends on your customer segment
right like enterprise customers are
totally used to paying annually
and and they even want that right they
don't want to deal with having to
pay something on a monthly basis um if
you're targeting smbs
they they might prefer to pay you
you monthly um but they might be okay to
pay annually too and if you
uh give them an incentive like one month
for free or 10 or 15 discount they might
actually like it so i think there is
really
no risk in
trying that um
it's
not necessarily saying you should force
everybody i think you should try you
should give your sales team the right
incentive you should give your customers
the right incentives and then i'm pretty
sure that a certain percentage of their
customers will make that switch um
i think it can be five percent or
30 or 40 percent or or even more right
it really depends on a lot of factors um
but i think there is really no risk
trying that
hi
hello
i'm leopold from evina
thank you christine for the presentation
and the blog plus as well always super
useful
my question is with regards to
the burn multiple and this kind of
indicators um
and
what in your opinion is the right time
frame to uh to use when you look at
those
um because for instance if you hire you
know sales in a enterprise
environment
it takes a while for them to ramp up and
so your burden is going to mechanically
increase
before it stabilizes and then decreases
you know and so
if you look at just one month or a
quarter it's a bit biased and it can
feel a bit scary
and it's actually normal so why in your
opinion is the the right way to get that
both in the past and then in the future
also
yeah
right
i think it's a very good point like one
like not all revenue is created equal
right so if you're selling to
enterprises and you
have a low churn rate you might even
have a strongly positive net dollar
retention rate
so one dollar of new arr from an
enterprise customer might be worth
1.20
next year and 1.40 the year thereafter
and that
definitely means that
you should want to spend more on
acquiring that customer right um and you
should be
uh you should be willing to accept a
significantly lower sales
and marketing efficiency so maybe you
you're you're saying that 18 months of
payback on that customer is is is fine
because you know
uh that you have this this amazing net
dollar retention
um i guess the only caveat here is can
you do it if you're running out of money
in six months um then you probably just
don't have the choice and you have to
do things that are really focused on
more
short-term results um
so
i i think if you're like early enough in
your planning cycle you can kind of uh
think about these like longer-term
investments but there might be a
situation where you just
where you just have no choice but about
optimizing for the short term
my name is rahul
forecasting.ai
one question that i have is basically
during this slow down in the vc market
um how is it going to affect companies
with high r d expense
now what i mean by r d expenses we are a
deep tech company this means that we
have to have
um an r d budget
which we can't cut in a short period of
time so what's your perspective on let's
say ai based sas companies during this
time yeah hey thanks for the question
rahul i think yeah that's a good
um good question
i
i think it's a bit too early to tell
right things are really
moving very very fast and today the
market is maybe already different from
what it was two months ago and it might
still be different in in another two
months i i think
pre-seed or seed companies will still be
able to raise
significant amounts of money um like
let's say five or ten million dollar if
it's the right team and if it's the
right opportunity to
do that
r d work to get a product um into the
hands of customers
um
and
so basically
maybe one way of looking at it is you
have this initial shot right you get
this pile of money but and
you have to do something with it you
have to prove something
and
in comparison to
last year and the year before where
money was just cheaper and more readily
available it's probably fair to assume
that it's going to be somewhat harder so
i my my default assumption is just that
it's comparably harder to raise for any
company at any given stage because in
the last two years there was just so
much money in the system trickling
through to basically every bucket so i i
think you
you the unfortunate or maybe tough
message for almost everybody might be
that you have to do more with less
yeah
hi um i'm patrick from motion tools um
uh thanks for the um for the
presentation um
you mentioned sales efficiency on the
one hand and gave a really nice
framework for that on the other hand
some like best like metrics for growth
like what is considered good what is
like a good uh kind of rule of thumb on
how to bring those together and say like
at what kind of sales efficiency is it
still good enough um like the growth
rate or when is it okay to even grow
faster faster yeah so
for somewhat later stage companies there
is this famous rule of 40 which you
might have heard about which is uh
basically uh you take your growth rate
and you add your
ebitda or cash flow margin which is
usually negative and then you get the
sum of those two values and if it's
above 30 40 50 that's generally
considered to be good and if it's lower
than that it's not so good
the problem is that this only really
works if you're at i know 10 15 million
or so in in arr at a much earlier stage
you will almost always have a not so
good rule of 40 because the investments
in
product and engineering are just um like
so high that
that they like they matter relatively
speaking so much more
um i think at the earlier stage you
probably have to wonder what's the
minimum growth rate that i need to
attract investors
and then you
try to get there as efficient as
possible and if
the conclusion is that you won't get
there in an efficient way then you need
to do something else then you probably
need to like kind of like be back go
back to bootstrapping mode or somehow
extend your runway and assume that
you're not being investable
for now and you need to kind of get back
to the to the drawing board so that that
leaves the question like what is a good
enough growth rate um
at the early stages like
let's say below a million in err or a
couple of million in err i think 2.5 x
is probably
pretty much the minimum definitely more
than 2x i think anything below 2x is a
is a bad signal for for investors um
and even if you're at 5 or 10 million
arr as you saw from these
bessemer metrics um
it's like the 2x still holds until
i know 10 15 20 million r where where it
gets really really difficult so the the
bar is pretty high there yeah
hello
so subscription is the business model
that we're talking about today but what
are maybe one or two verticals that you
and point nine find interesting at the
moment
yeah
so at point nine we do primarily two
things b2b sas the
subscription model that you mentioned
that we all love here and then we also
do b2b marketplaces um and then some of
these companies do both like what we
like to call sas enabled marketplaces
which can be really really strong
businesses in terms of the verticals
which which you asked about and we
really like especially for the
marketplace side we really love
verticals
that i probably didn't even know they
existed before a founder tells me about
it like we're an investor in a company
called laserhub for example which is a
marketplace for
custom-made metal parts like using laser
cutting probably none of us in the room
is really like has thought about this
industry uh i'm not happy to be proven
wrong but it's probably
trillions
in size or similarly logistics or like
like metal trading so there are so many
companies
from the
so-called old economy
that are working in a really inefficient
way um like we we tend to think that
every company that transacts using
phones and fax machines deserves a
better solution a better sar solution
probably a marketplace to match supply
and demand and so we're really really
excited about these types of
industries that are not really on
everybody's mind and where you need
founders with super deep domain
expertise to build a company there
hi
espen from kindly ai
thanks for a great presentation and i
also love to read your posts
thank you um and this question is
because you maybe have an answer to it
apart from a lot of others
so what we have seen through the gfc and
the code situation is that
quite some customers have chosen to
stick to their current vendors
and rather increase
their commitment with current vendors
rather than having new vendors
um would you have any thoughts on
i mean
uh because if if we are going into
trouble sometimes
it could be harder to acquire
new logos rather than to stick with the
current customers
so uh
my question is is more on
um
from
experience with other
situations
gfc
and the covid
what
what was the decline in new logo
retention
in terms and and what was the stickiness
of our current customers could be a
could be a topic for for a post of your
yours
thank you yeah
so i
i don't think i have a quantitative
answer on that and maybe if the question
is like how can you deal with that
situation i
i think it's maybe related to
like in general like your product market
fit and the urgency that you can create
for customers to
to buy your product because it's much
better than the competition um so
a which which means that it's a complex
topic and which
where the answer doesn't fit into like
just just a few minutes um but maybe
just two things to to think about like
one is to just in a situation like this
spend more time with your existing
customers so that they expand more with
your product if you if you're if the
behavior that you observe is that in
your industry people stick more to
whatever they're using already so maybe
you can try to benefit from that as well
and then when it comes to
selling to new customers i think it's
generally hard to sell to customers when
they don't have a pressing need so
obviously you can do a lot of things you
can have a better sales team better
tactics but i think the thing that
probably works better is to find better
leads
i i think if you chase
that don't seem to have the right
urgency and they might be reasonably
happy with whatever they are using and
might not see your usp
um it might just not be the the best use
of your time or your sales people's time
and so what you should maybe try to do
is open up the funnel try to get more
leads and but then let your sales team
be picky to focus on the leads that have
the highest probability of of closing
and
and if you don't have any of these leads
then i think it just points to a
a deeper problem with your product and
positioning
yeah one or two more questions
hello yeah okay hey uh so thanks a lot
for the talk it was amazing um one
question you talked about the sales
efficiency
uh
so we we're seeing uh an impact of the
overall situation and environment
also for example on the conversion rates
say cycles are getting longer
acquisition costs are going up
so what's your point of view there like
how how do you think companies should
adapt those sort of market uh
you know behavior yeah that's it that's
a very good point and i i didn't even
even even mention this in my talk like
like what could be some of the impacts
on really the fundamentals of the
company right it could be
that com companies customers go out of
business right i think we're not really
seeing this
yet at least not in big numbers but
especially for companies that sell to
other startups and some of them might go
out of business that could really have a
pretty bad spiraling effect um sounds
like you might already see it and maybe
not in turn but in lower conversions and
on lower or longer sales cycles that's
definitely not not that unusual
um i don't know if there is a simple way
to
to address that right um i think you can
try all kinds of tactics to
increase your conversion again or reduce
your sales cycles but at the same time
you probably also have to
take into account the possibility that
it'll just be like this for some more
time and then adjust to it
if it means you have somewhat lower
growth than you planned then you're
maybe a bit like this company that i
this imaginary company that i talked
about that should find some ways to to
extend extend runway um so
but i think it really depends if you can
make investments in sales and marketing
customer success which um kind of deal
with the core issue um then if you can
do that that's great but if that doesn't
work out then you probably have to do
something else to at least have enough
runway
i think we're out of time thank you so
much everybody for joining also for the
great questions
[Music]
you